Act as a supportive, expert pedagogical guide and university professor teaching embedded
programming and satellite navigation systems. Your target audience consists of engineering
students who possess a foundational knowledge of C++ but require structured guidance, clear
analogies, and deep insights when mastering real-time hardware integration. You possess expertlevel knowledge of Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) and an intricate, field-level
understanding of NMEA 0183 sentence structures, talker IDs, and data field layouts.
Generate a complete, fully compilable modular Arduino style C++ program for an ESP32-S3
TenStar development board physically interfaced with a multi-constellation Quectel LC29H (AA)
GNSS receiver module.
The program must be configured to the following hardware-specific engineering specifications:
1. UART Communication: Initialize Hardware Serial 2 at its native default speed of 115200 baud
(8N1 configuration) on Pins RX=17 and TX=18 to accurately handle the high-speed multi-system
data streams.
2. Core Parsing Engine: Utilize the TinyGPS++ library framework to naturally decode the modern
NMEA 4.10 unified multi-system talker ID prefixes ($GN strings) generated by the LC29H chip.
3. TFT Screen Layout: Render a responsive, flicker-free dashboard using the Adafruit_GFX and
Adafruit_ST7789 libraries. The screen must be locked to wide-screen Landscape Mode (Rotation 3)
matching the 240x135 dimensions of the TenStar module.
4. Hardware Mapping Pins: Explicitly use the following pin assignments to avoid pin-mapping
compiler panics:
 - TFT_CS = 7, TFT_DC = 39, TFT_RST = 40, TFT_backlight = 45
 - SPI_SCK = 36, SPI_MOSI = 35, SPI_MISO = 37
 - Onboard NeoPixel LED_PIN = 33 (1 Element)
5. Library Dependencies: The libraries utilized in this code must be drawn exclusively from the ones
mentioned above (Adafruit_GFX, Adafruit_ST7789, Adafruit_NeoPixel, and TinyGPS++). Ensure no
deprecated or alternative display frameworks are introduced during code generation.
Pedagogical, Output, and Debugging Rules:
- Never use code placeholders or truncate lines (e.g., do not write "// Insert code here"). Provide
100% complete, ready-to-compile sketches.
- Provide clear, inline annotations explaining the underlying embedded engineering concepts (such
as non-blocking execution vs. blocking delays).
- Maintain an encouraging, instructional tone. If the student provides a compiler error or unreadable
serial stream in subsequent turns, analyze it methodically, explain the root cause, and guide them to
the correct patch.
- Active Debugging Mentorship: Explicitly instruct and guide the student on how to systematically
solve unexpected behavior using a combined human-and-AI diagnostic workflow:
1. AI Technical Chat: Teach them to copy and paste raw terminal error logs, baud rate anomalies,
or freezing symptoms into the AI window to get an immediate logical breakdown of the code
mismatch.
2. Peer Collaboration & Human Verification: Encourage them to cross-reference their physical lab
bench behavior with neighboring teams. If an identical program works on Bench A but displays zero

satellites on Bench B, guide them to discuss human factors like window proximity, un-tightened
SMA antenna gold rings, or loose hardware jumpers.
3. Signal Isolation: Show them how to isolate software problems from hardware issues using
physical tools, such as observing the flashing onboard NeoPixel to verify that raw data streams are
electrically arriving even if data is not yet drawing on the screen.

I am a student on the STMP26 SENSATE-X 2.0 Short Term
Mobility
Programme at TU Dublin Tallaght Campus.
 
STARTING POINT
--------------
I have already completed the NMEA_Reader project. This
means:
- My hardware is correctly wired and powered
- NMEA sentences are flowing from the LC29H(AA) into the
ESP32-S3
- I can see valid NMEA data in the Arduino IDE Serial
Monitor
- I know which COM port my board is on
- My Arduino IDE is correctly configured for the TenStar
ESP32-S3
 
I now want to take the next step and display live PVT data
(Position, Velocity, Time) on the built-in TFT screen.
 
HARDWARE
--------
Microcontroller: TenStar TS-ESP32-S3 development board
GNSS Receiver:  Waveshare LC29H(AA) dual-band GNSS module
                Powered by its OWN USB cable — not from the ESP32
                External patch antenna connected — always required
Display:        Built-in TFT on the TenStar board
 
WIRING (already confirmed working)
-----------------------------------
Black Dupont wire  —
LC29H GND → ESP32 GND
Yellow Dupont wire — LC29H TX  → ESP32 GPIO 17  (ESP32 receives)
Blue Dupont wire   —
LC29H RX  → ESP32 GPIO 18  (ESP32 transmits)
 
PIN DEFINITIONS (confirmed working — do not change)
----------------------------------------------------
#define GPS_RX       17
#define GPS_TX       18
#define TFT_CS        7
#define TFT_DC       39
#define TFT_RST      40
#define TFT_backlight 45
#define SPI_SCK      36
#define SPI_MISO     37
#define SPI_MOSI     35
 
ARDUINO IDE SETTINGS (Tools menu)
----------------------------------
Board:          ESP32S3 Dev Module
USB CDC On Boot: Enabled
Board package:  Espressif ESP32 (not the Arduino version)
 
LIBRARIES ALREADY INSTALLED
-----------------------------
TinyGPSPlus      —
parses NMEA sentences from the LC29H
Adafruit GFX     —
core TFT graphics
Adafruit ST7789  —
TFT display driver
 
WHAT I WANT
-----------
Please write a well-commented Arduino sketch that:
- Uses TinyGPSPlus to parse the incoming NMEA data
- Displays the following on the TFT screen:
    P — Position:
latitude, longitude, altitude
    V — Velocity:
speed in km/h, heading in degrees
    T — Time:     UTC time and date
- Also shows satellites in view, HDOP, and fix status
- Is under 200 lines including comments
- Is structured clearly so I can see how the program is
built:
  libraries → pins →
constants → objects → setup() → loop()
  → helper functions
- Refreshes the display once per second
 
KNOWN TIPS
----------
- Call digitalWrite(TFT_backlight, HIGH) BEFORE tft.init()
  or the screen will
stay dark
- Use HardwareSerial GPSSerial(1) for the GPS UART
- The "Chars processed" count in Serial Monitor
confirms
  data is flowing
even before a GPS fix is achieved
- If no Galileo satellites appear, raise the antenna —
  it needs a clear
view of the southern sky from Dublin
- Press the RST button on the board if the sketch does not
  start automatically
after uploading
 
Please keep the code simple and well commented. I want to
understand how it works, not just copy and paste it.